<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>Principles</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html">Principles
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Dalio, Ray

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="part0051.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="part0053.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_395" class="calibre1"></a><span class="stickup">W</span>hile we talked about an organization’s culture in the last section, its people are even more important because they can change the culture for better or for worse. A culture and its people are symbiotic—the culture attracts certain kinds of people and the people in turn either reinforce or evolve the culture based on their values and what they’re like. If you choose the right people with the right values and remain in sync with them, you will play beautiful jazz together. If you choose the wrong people, you will all go over the waterfall together.</p>
<p class="indent">Steve Jobs, who everyone thought was the secret to Apple’s success, said, “The secret to my success is that we’ve gone to exceptional lengths to hire the best people in the world.” I explain this concept in the next chapter, Remember That the WHO Is More Important than the WHAT. Anyone who runs a successful organization will tell you the same.</p>
<p class="indent">Yet most organizations are bad at recruiting. It starts with interviewers picking people they like and who are like them instead of focusing on what people are really like and how well they will fit in their jobs and careers. As I describe in Chapter Eight, Hire Right, Because the Penalties for Hiring Wrong Are Huge, to hire well, one <a id="page_396" class="calibre1"></a>needs a more scientific process that precisely matches people’s values, abilities, and skills with the organization’s culture and its career paths. You and your candidate need to get to know each other. You have to let them interview your organization and you have to honestly convey to them what it’s like, warts and all, and be crystal clear about what you can expect from each other.</p>
<p class="indent">But even then, after you both say yes, you won’t know if you have a good fit until you’ve lived together in your work and your relationships for a while. The “interviewing” process doesn’t end when employment begins, but transitions into a rigorous process of training, testing, sorting, and most importantly, getting in sync, which I describe in Chapter Nine, Constantly Train, Test, Evaluate, and Sort People.</p>
<p class="indent">I believe that the ability to objectively self-assess, including one’s own weaknesses, is the most influential factor in whether a person succeeds, and that a healthy organization is one in which people compete not so much against each other as against the ways in which their lower-level selves get in the way. Your goal should be to hire people who understand this, equip them with the tools and the information they need to flourish in their jobs, and not micromanage them. If they can’t do the job after being trained and given time to learn, get rid of them; if they can, promote them.</p>


  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="part0000.xhtml">Cover</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0004.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0005.xhtml">Introduction</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0006.xhtml">Part I: Where I’m Coming From</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0008.xhtml">1 My Call to Adventure: 1949–1967</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0009.xhtml">2 Crossing the Threshold: 1967–1979</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0010.xhtml">3 My Abyss: 1979–1982</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0011.xhtml">4 My Road of Trials: 1983–1994</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0012.xhtml">5 The Ultimate Boon: 1995–2010</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0013.xhtml">6 Returning the Boon: 2011–2015</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0014.xhtml">7 My Last Year and My Greatest Challenge: 2016–2017</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0015.xhtml">8 Looking Back from a Higher Level</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0018.xhtml">Part II: Life Principles</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0019.xhtml">1 Embrace Reality and Deal with It</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0025.xhtml">2 Use the 5-Step Process to Get What You Want Out of Life</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0026.xhtml">3 Be Radically Open-Minded</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0029.xhtml">4 Understand That People Are Wired Very Differently</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0030.xhtml">5 Learn How to Make Decisions Effectively</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0033.xhtml">Life Principles: Putting It All Together</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0034.xhtml">Summary and Table of Life Principles</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0035.xhtml">Part III: Work Principles</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0036.xhtml">Summary and Table of Work Principles</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0041.xhtml">To Get the Culture Right . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0043.xhtml">1 Trust in Radical Truth and Radical Transparency</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0045.xhtml">2 Cultivate Meaningful Work and Meaningful Relationships</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0046.xhtml">3 Create a Culture in Which It Is Okay to Make Mistakes and Unacceptable Not to Learn from Them</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0047.xhtml">4 Get and Stay in Sync</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0048.xhtml">5 Believability Weight Your Decision Making</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0049.xhtml">6 Recognize How to Get Beyond Disagreements</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0051.xhtml">To Get the People Right . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0054.xhtml">7 Remember That the WHO Is More Important than the WHAT</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0055.xhtml">8 Hire Right, Because the Penalties for Hiring Wrong Are Huge</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0056.xhtml">9 Constantly Train, Test, Evaluate, and Sort People</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0057.xhtml">To Build and Evolve Your Machine . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0061.xhtml">10 Manage as Someone Operating a Machine to Achieve a Goal</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0062.xhtml">11 Perceive and Don’t Tolerate Problems</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0063.xhtml">12 Diagnose Problems to Get at Their Root Causes</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0064.xhtml">13 Design Improvements to Your Machine to Get Around Your Problems</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0066.xhtml">14 Do What You Set Out to Do</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0067.xhtml">15 Use Tools and Protocols to Shape How Work Is Done</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0068.xhtml">16 And for Heaven’s Sake, Don’t Overlook Governance!</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0069.xhtml">Work Principles: Putting It All Together</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0070.xhtml">Acknowledgments</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0071.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0072.xhtml">Conclusion</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0073.xhtml">Appendix: Tools and Protocols for Bridgewater’s Idea Meritocracy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0074.xhtml">Bibliography</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0075.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0077.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="part0051.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="part0053.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
