<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>Principles</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html">Principles
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Dalio, Ray

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="part0069.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="part0071.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h2 class="h2-chap2"><a id="page_565" class="signup-nounder"></a><span class="txbf">ACKNOWLEDGMENTS</span></h2>
<p class="noindent">My Life and Work Principles are a result of my encounters with reality over many years. Because these encounters were most importantly shaped with Bob Prince, Greg Jensen, Giselle Wagner, Dan Bernstein, David McCormick, Eileen Murray, Joe Dobrich, Paul Colman, Rob Fried, Ross Waller, Claude Amadeo, Randal Sandler, Osman Nalbantoglu, Brian Kreiter, Tom Sinchak, Tom Waller, Janine Racanelli, Fran Shanne, and Lisa Safian, they are the people to whom I am most grateful.</p>
<p class="indent">Bob, Greg, and I have spent the greater parts of our adult lives trying to discover the timeless and universal laws of economies and markets. In the process, we had daily interactions that were typically thoughtful, infrequently bloody, and occasionally euphoric. While our meetings were primarily about economies and markets and led to the discovery of invaluable economic and investment principles, they also taught us a great amount about ourselves and about how people should be with each other. We captured these lessons as life and work principles that were even more valuable. More recently, we did that with Eileen Murray and Dave McCormick, who together replaced me as co-CEOs. Thank you, Dave and Eileen, for contributing to, receiving, and taking care of the boon.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_566" class="calibre1"></a>When I first imagined transitioning Bridgewater from a first-generation organization to a second-generation one, I decided to pull together my scattered collection of principles into this recipe book to help others at Bridgewater. Collecting and transforming what started as a messy pile of principles into this beautiful book was an epic effort that Mark Kirby, more than anyone, was responsible for helping me with. I also appreciate Arthur Goldwag’s and Mike Kubin’s contributions in tightening up and refining the entire manuscript. (Mike did that as a friend.) I further appreciate Arianna Huffington, Tony Robbins, Norm Rosenthal, and Kristina Nikolova for taking the time to read the book and provide valuable suggestions.</p>
<p class="indent">Those who enabled me most on a daily basis were “Ray’s Angels” (Marilyn Caufield, Petra Koegel, Kristy Merola, and Christina Drossakis), “Ray’s Leveragers” (Zack Wieder, Dave Alpert, Jen Gonyo, and Andrew Sternlight—and past leveragers Elise Waxenberg, David Manners-Weber, and John Woody), and “Ray’s Researchers” (Steven Kryger, Gardner Davis, and Brandon Rowley—and past researcher Mark Dinner). I am also thankful to Jason Rotenberg, Noah Yechiely, Karen Karniol-Tambour, Bruce Steinberg, Larry Cofsky, Bob Elliott, Ramsen Betfarhad, Kevin Brennan, Kerry Reilly, and Jacob Kline, who are among the next generation who help spark and shape our investment principles; to Jeff Gardner, Jim Haskel, Paul Podolsky, Rob Zink, Mike Colby, Lionel Kaliff, Joel Whidden, Brian Lawlor, Tom Bachner, Jim White, Kyle Delaney, Ian Wang, Parag Shah, and Bill Mahoney, who have personified our principles to our clients; to Dave Ferrucci, who, more than anyone else, has helped me convert the Work Principles into algorithms; and to Jeff Taylor, Steve Elfanbaum, Stuart Friedman, and Jen Healy, who are helping me convert them into common sense for a lot of people. Though my interests and directions have always been diverse, these teams made my missions their missions, and kept me moving forward. Without their help, I wouldn’t have accomplished anything close to what I have. Thank you for enduring me and for selflessly supporting me.</p>
<p class="indent">Whatever beauty you see in the book’s design was the result of Phil Caravaggio’s generosity and talent. After I put the original version <a id="page_567" class="calibre1"></a>of Principles online as a PDF, he came to me as a stranger bearing the gift of a gorgeously designed print edition, created with the help of the artistic book designer Rodrigo Corral. Phil, who is a brilliant entrepreneur in his own right, just wanted to thank me because the principles had helped him. The book’s beauty astounded me, and Phil’s account of what these principles meant to him was another gift that nudged me closer to making the book a reality. Once I decided to make it, Phil went on to work tirelessly with Rodrigo to shape the aesthetic of what you are now holding in your hands—doing so again solely as a gift. Thank you, Phil!</p>
<p class="indent">Six years ago, Jofie Ferrari-Adler, Executive Editor at Simon &amp; Schuster, read the principles online, found them valuable, and explained to me why sharing this book was an important thing for me to do to help others. He has been a valued partner in making that happen. In exploring my publishing options, I triangulated with others to find the best agent available. This search led me to Jim Levine. I learned why he is so admired by his clients as he provides his great time, skill, and empathy. Jim guided me through the publishing process, which led me to Jon Karp, Simon &amp; Schuster’s President. From the start, Jon wanted my book to be more what I wanted it to be than what he wanted it to be, and he helped me make it happen.</p>
<p class="indent">Finally, I’d like to thank my wife, Barbara, and my sons Devon, Paul, Matt, and Mark for putting up with me and my principles—and for giving me the time and space to create both these principles and this book.<a id="page_568" class="calibre1"></a></p>


  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="part0000.xhtml">Cover</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0004.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0005.xhtml">Introduction</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0006.xhtml">Part I: Where I’m Coming From</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0008.xhtml">1 My Call to Adventure: 1949–1967</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0009.xhtml">2 Crossing the Threshold: 1967–1979</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0010.xhtml">3 My Abyss: 1979–1982</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0011.xhtml">4 My Road of Trials: 1983–1994</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0012.xhtml">5 The Ultimate Boon: 1995–2010</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0013.xhtml">6 Returning the Boon: 2011–2015</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0014.xhtml">7 My Last Year and My Greatest Challenge: 2016–2017</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0015.xhtml">8 Looking Back from a Higher Level</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0018.xhtml">Part II: Life Principles</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0019.xhtml">1 Embrace Reality and Deal with It</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0025.xhtml">2 Use the 5-Step Process to Get What You Want Out of Life</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0026.xhtml">3 Be Radically Open-Minded</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0029.xhtml">4 Understand That People Are Wired Very Differently</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0030.xhtml">5 Learn How to Make Decisions Effectively</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0033.xhtml">Life Principles: Putting It All Together</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0034.xhtml">Summary and Table of Life Principles</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0035.xhtml">Part III: Work Principles</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0036.xhtml">Summary and Table of Work Principles</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0041.xhtml">To Get the Culture Right . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0043.xhtml">1 Trust in Radical Truth and Radical Transparency</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0045.xhtml">2 Cultivate Meaningful Work and Meaningful Relationships</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0046.xhtml">3 Create a Culture in Which It Is Okay to Make Mistakes and Unacceptable Not to Learn from Them</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0047.xhtml">4 Get and Stay in Sync</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0048.xhtml">5 Believability Weight Your Decision Making</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0049.xhtml">6 Recognize How to Get Beyond Disagreements</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0051.xhtml">To Get the People Right . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0054.xhtml">7 Remember That the WHO Is More Important than the WHAT</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0055.xhtml">8 Hire Right, Because the Penalties for Hiring Wrong Are Huge</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0056.xhtml">9 Constantly Train, Test, Evaluate, and Sort People</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0057.xhtml">To Build and Evolve Your Machine . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0061.xhtml">10 Manage as Someone Operating a Machine to Achieve a Goal</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0062.xhtml">11 Perceive and Don’t Tolerate Problems</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0063.xhtml">12 Diagnose Problems to Get at Their Root Causes</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0064.xhtml">13 Design Improvements to Your Machine to Get Around Your Problems</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0066.xhtml">14 Do What You Set Out to Do</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0067.xhtml">15 Use Tools and Protocols to Shape How Work Is Done</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0068.xhtml">16 And for Heaven’s Sake, Don’t Overlook Governance!</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0069.xhtml">Work Principles: Putting It All Together</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0070.xhtml">Acknowledgments</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0071.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0072.xhtml">Conclusion</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0073.xhtml">Appendix: Tools and Protocols for Bridgewater’s Idea Meritocracy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0074.xhtml">Bibliography</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0075.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0077.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="part0069.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="part0071.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
