<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>Principles</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html">Principles
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Dalio, Ray

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="part0013.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="part0015.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h2 class="h2-chap"><a id="page_117" class="calibre1"></a>CHAPTER 7</h2>
<h2 class="h2-chap1">MY LAST YEAR AND MY GREATEST CHALLENGE:</h2>
<p class="subt"><span class="txbf">2016–2017</span></p>
<p class="noindent"><span class="stickup">W</span>hile even before that fortieth anniversary we had all been aware that our transition wasn’t going as smoothly as we’d hoped, in the months that followed our problems came to a head in ways that caught us off guard. While the investment part of Bridgewater was better than ever, other parts of the business, like the technology and recruiting areas, were slipping.</p>
<p class="indent">I was no longer CEO, so it was not my job to manage the company. As chairman, my job was to oversee the CEOs, to make sure that they were managing it well. And Greg Jensen and Eileen Murray, the CEOs at the time, were clearly overstretched. We all agreed that the company wasn’t being managed adequately, but we disagreed on what to do about it. Disagreements like these were expected, as we always want everyone to think independently and argue for what they view as best. That is why we have principles and processes for resolving them.</p>
<p class="indent">So, over a period of several weeks, we exchanged our views. Then key parties presented their perspectives and recommendations to members of our Management Committee and our Stakeholders Committee (which is essentially the Bridgewater board), who considered the alternative paths and ultimately voted on them. The most important decision that came out of that process was announced in <a id="page_118" class="calibre1"></a>March 2016: Greg would step out of his co-CEO role so that he could focus all his attention on his co-chief investment officer role (which he handled with Bob Prince and me), and I would temporarily join Eileen as co-CEO while we implemented the structural changes needed to allow Bridgewater to work well without me.</p>
<p class="indent">While that wasn’t the outcome any of us had hoped for when I first stepped out as CEO and passed it on to others, it wasn’t entirely unexpected. Our struggles had been apparent for some time, and we’d tried different iterations. We knew that leadership transitions are never easy, and our modus operandi has always been to try, fail, diagnose, redesign, and try again. That’s what we were doing. Now was the time for a leadership change.</p>
<p class="indent">Still, this particular failure was painful, especially for Greg and me. I realized that I had handed Greg too heavy a load in expecting him to carry out both the co-CEO and co-CIO roles. I regret that mistake more than any other I made in running Bridgewater because it hurt both of us and the company. I had not only mentored Greg, but he had been like a son to me for nearly twenty years. He and I both wanted and expected him to run the company. The pain of this failure was made worse, especially for Greg, by the sensational and inaccurate accounts that appeared in the media. Story after story portrayed it as a bitter death-match between two titans rather than what it really was, which was people who loved Bridgewater working through their disagreements in an idea-meritocratic way. This was Greg’s going-into-the-abyss experience on his own hero’s journey—and it was also that for me, and for a number of other leaders of the company—and not just because it was so painful, but because it led us to a metamorphosis that improved us a lot.</p>
<p class="indent">Greg is twenty-five years younger than me. I often think about where I was at his age, and how much I’ve learned in the years since. I know Greg will go on to succeed remarkably in his own way. I was pleased that we both came through this stronger, and especially pleased that our systems for identifying and resolving problems had worked as well as they had. While we all had different perspectives, this case reaffirmed our belief that our collective idea-meritocratic decision-making process would produce better results than any one of <a id="page_119" class="calibre1"></a>us could have done alone. It was having such a process, along with our deep relationships, that kept us together.</p>
<p class="indent">I realized again that what I didn’t know was much greater than what I did, in this case not knowing how to transition out of the founder-leader role. So I reached out to some of the greatest experts I could speak with for advice. Perhaps the best advice we received came from management expert Jim Collins, who told us that “to transition well, there are only two things that you need to do: Put capable CEOs in place and have a capable governance system to replace the CEOs if they’re not capable.” That was what I had failed to do and what I now had a second shot at doing right. So I began to think about governance in a way that I never had before.</p>
<p class="indent">Simply put, governance is the system of checks and balances ensuring that an organization will be stronger than whoever happens to be leading it at any one time. Because I was a founder-entrepreneur, I had run Bridgewater for thirty-five years with no formal rules to check and balance me (though I had created an informal governance system by having me report to our Management Committee as a check on my decision making).</p>
<p class="indent">While that informal system had worked for me, it could not work well without me. Clearly, we needed to build a new governance system that would allow Bridgewater to retain its unique way of being and its uncompromising standards no matter who was in charge—and build it to be resilient enough to change the company’s management if that was required. I went on to do that with the help of others, and we are doing that still.</p>
<p class="indent">I had learned that it’s wrong to assume either that a person in one role will be successful in another role or that the ways one person operates will work well for another. This difficult year also taught me a lot about the people around me, especially David McCormick and Eileen Murray, who showed their commitments to our shared mission, as numerous other people did. There were some failures that we would have rather not had, but that was to be expected, given our unique culture of trial and error and learning from mistakes. Thanks to the changes we put into place, I was able to step out of my temporary stint as CEO after one year, in April 2017.</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_120" class="calibre1"></a>As I write these words in 2017, I view this year as the final one in my transition from the second phase of my life to the third, when I will have finished passing along the knowledge I have gathered along the way, and, as Joseph Campbell described it, I will be free to live and free to die. But right now I’m not thinking about the dying part; I’m thinking about how to live freely, and I’m excited about it.</p>


  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="part0000.xhtml">Cover</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0004.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0005.xhtml">Introduction</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0006.xhtml">Part I: Where I’m Coming From</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0008.xhtml">1 My Call to Adventure: 1949–1967</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0009.xhtml">2 Crossing the Threshold: 1967–1979</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0010.xhtml">3 My Abyss: 1979–1982</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0011.xhtml">4 My Road of Trials: 1983–1994</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0012.xhtml">5 The Ultimate Boon: 1995–2010</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0013.xhtml">6 Returning the Boon: 2011–2015</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0014.xhtml">7 My Last Year and My Greatest Challenge: 2016–2017</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0015.xhtml">8 Looking Back from a Higher Level</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0018.xhtml">Part II: Life Principles</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0019.xhtml">1 Embrace Reality and Deal with It</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0025.xhtml">2 Use the 5-Step Process to Get What You Want Out of Life</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0026.xhtml">3 Be Radically Open-Minded</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0029.xhtml">4 Understand That People Are Wired Very Differently</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0030.xhtml">5 Learn How to Make Decisions Effectively</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0033.xhtml">Life Principles: Putting It All Together</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0034.xhtml">Summary and Table of Life Principles</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0035.xhtml">Part III: Work Principles</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0036.xhtml">Summary and Table of Work Principles</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0041.xhtml">To Get the Culture Right . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0043.xhtml">1 Trust in Radical Truth and Radical Transparency</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0045.xhtml">2 Cultivate Meaningful Work and Meaningful Relationships</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0046.xhtml">3 Create a Culture in Which It Is Okay to Make Mistakes and Unacceptable Not to Learn from Them</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0047.xhtml">4 Get and Stay in Sync</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0048.xhtml">5 Believability Weight Your Decision Making</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0049.xhtml">6 Recognize How to Get Beyond Disagreements</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0051.xhtml">To Get the People Right . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0054.xhtml">7 Remember That the WHO Is More Important than the WHAT</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0055.xhtml">8 Hire Right, Because the Penalties for Hiring Wrong Are Huge</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0056.xhtml">9 Constantly Train, Test, Evaluate, and Sort People</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0057.xhtml">To Build and Evolve Your Machine . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0061.xhtml">10 Manage as Someone Operating a Machine to Achieve a Goal</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0062.xhtml">11 Perceive and Don’t Tolerate Problems</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0063.xhtml">12 Diagnose Problems to Get at Their Root Causes</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0064.xhtml">13 Design Improvements to Your Machine to Get Around Your Problems</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0066.xhtml">14 Do What You Set Out to Do</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0067.xhtml">15 Use Tools and Protocols to Shape How Work Is Done</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0068.xhtml">16 And for Heaven’s Sake, Don’t Overlook Governance!</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0069.xhtml">Work Principles: Putting It All Together</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0070.xhtml">Acknowledgments</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0071.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0072.xhtml">Conclusion</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0073.xhtml">Appendix: Tools and Protocols for Bridgewater’s Idea Meritocracy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0074.xhtml">Bibliography</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0075.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0077.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="part0013.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="part0015.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
