<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>Principles</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html">Principles
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Dalio, Ray

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="part0073.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
        

        
          <a href="part0075.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
<h2 class="h2-chap2"><a id="page_553" class="signup-nounder"></a><span class="txbf">BIBLIOGRAPHY</span></h2>
<p class="bib">Aamodt, Sandra, and Sam Wang. <span class="txit">Welcome to Your Brain: Why You Lose Your Car Keys but Never Forget How to Drive and Other Puzzles of Everyday Life</span>. New York: Bloomsbury Publishing, 2009.</p>
<p class="bib">Beauregard, Mario, and Denyse O’Leary. <span class="txit">The Spiritual Brain: A Neuroscientist’s Case for the Existence of the Soul</span>. San Francisco: HarperOne, 2007.</p>
<p class="bib">Campbell, Joseph. <span class="txit">The Hero with a Thousand Faces</span>. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1949.</p>
<p class="bib">Dalai Lama XIV. <span class="txit">Beyond Religion: Ethics for a Whole World</span>. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2011.</p>
<p class="bib">Dawkins, Richard. <span class="txit">River Out of Eden: A Darwinian View of Life</span>. New York: Basic Books, 1995.</p>
<p class="bib">Duhigg, Charles. <span class="txit">The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do in Life and Business</span>. New York: Random House, 2012.</p>
<p class="bib">Durant, Will, and Ariel Durant. <span class="txit">The Lessons of History</span>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 1968.</p>
<p class="bib">Eagleman, David. <span class="txit">Incognito: The Secret Lives of the Brain</span>. New York: Pantheon Books, 2011.</p>
<p class="bib">Gardner, Howard. <span class="txit">Changing Minds: The Art and Science of Changing Our Own and Other People’s Minds</span>. Cambridge: Harvard Business Review Press, 2006.</p>
<p class="bib">Gazzaniga, Michael S. <span class="txit">Who’s in Charge?: Free Will and the Science of the Brain</span>. New York: Ecco Books, 2011.</p>
<p class="bib">Grant, Adam. <span class="txit">Originals: How Non-Conformists Move the World</span>. New York: Viking, 2016.</p>
<p class="bib">Haier, Richard J. <span class="txit">The Intelligent Brain</span>. Chantilly, VA: The Great Courses Teaching Company, 2013.</p>
<p class="bib">Hess, Edward D. <span class="txit">Learn or Die: Using Science to Build a Leading-Edge Learning Organization</span>. New York: Columbia Business School Publishing, 2014.</p>
<p class="bib"><a id="page_554" class="calibre1"></a>Kahneman, Daniel. <span class="txit">Thinking, Fast and Slow</span>. New York: Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux, 2011.</p>
<p class="bib">Kegan, Robert. <span class="txit">The Evolving Self: Problem and Process in Human Development</span>. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1982.</p>
<p class="bib">Kegan, Robert. <span class="txit">In Over Our Heads: The Mental Demands of Modern Life</span>. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1998.</p>
<p class="bib">Kegan, Robert, and Lisa Laskow Lahey. <span class="txit">An Everyone Culture: Becoming a Deliberately Developmental Organization</span>. Cambridge: Harvard Business Review Press, 2016.</p>
<p class="bib">Lombardo, Michael M., Robert W. Eichinger, and Roger P. Pearman. <span class="txit">You: Being More Effective in Your MBTI Type</span>. Minneapolis: Lominger Limited, 2005.</p>
<p class="bib">Mlodinow, Leonard. <span class="txit">Subliminal: How Your Unconscious Mind Rules Your Behavior</span>. New York: Pantheon Books, 2012.</p>
<p class="bib">Newberg, Andrew, MD, and Mark Robert Waldman. <span class="txit">The Spiritual Brain: Science and Religious Experience</span>. Chantilly, VA: The Great Courses Teaching Company, 2012.</p>
<p class="bib">Norden, Jeanette. <span class="txit">Understanding the Brain</span>. Chantilly, VA: The Great Courses Teaching Company, 2007.</p>
<p class="bib">Pink, Daniel H. <span class="txit">A Whole New Mind: Why Right-Brainers Will Rule the Future</span>. New York: Riverhead Books, 2005.</p>
<p class="bib">Plekhanov, G. V. <span class="txit">On the Role of the Individual in History</span>. Honolulu: University Press of the Pacific, 2003. (Original work published 1898)</p>
<p class="bib">Reiss, Steven. <span class="txit">Who Am I? The 16 Basic Desires That Motivate Our Actions and Define Our Personalities</span>. New York: Berkley, 2002.</p>
<p class="bib">Riso, Don Richard, and Russ Hudson. <span class="txit">Discovering Your Personality Type: The Essential Introduction to the Enneagram, Revised and Expanded</span>. New York: Mariner Books, 2003.</p>
<p class="bib">Rosenthal, Norman E, MD. <span class="txit">The Gift of Adversity: The Unexpected Benefits of Life’s Difficulties, Setbacks, and Imperfections</span>. New York: TarcherPerigee, 2013.</p>
<p class="bib">Taylor, Jill Bolte. <span class="txit">My Stroke of Insight: A Brain Scientist’s Personal Journey</span>. New York: Penguin Books, 2009.</p>
<p class="bib">Thomson, J. Anderson, with Clare Aukofer. <span class="txit">Why We Believe in God(s): A Concise Guide to the Science of Faith</span>. Charlottesville: Pitchstone Publishing, 2011.</p>
<p class="bib">Tokoro, M., and K. Mogi, eds. <span class="txit">Creativity and the Brain</span>. Singapore: World Scientific Publishing, 2007.</p>
<p class="bib">Wilson, Edward O. <span class="txit">The Meaning of Human Existence</span>. New York: Liveright Publishing Corporation, 2014.</p>


  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html">Table of contents
</a></h2>
    <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="part0000.xhtml">Cover</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0004.xhtml">Dedication</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0005.xhtml">Introduction</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0006.xhtml">Part I: Where I’m Coming From</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0008.xhtml">1 My Call to Adventure: 1949–1967</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0009.xhtml">2 Crossing the Threshold: 1967–1979</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0010.xhtml">3 My Abyss: 1979–1982</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0011.xhtml">4 My Road of Trials: 1983–1994</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0012.xhtml">5 The Ultimate Boon: 1995–2010</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0013.xhtml">6 Returning the Boon: 2011–2015</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0014.xhtml">7 My Last Year and My Greatest Challenge: 2016–2017</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0015.xhtml">8 Looking Back from a Higher Level</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0018.xhtml">Part II: Life Principles</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0019.xhtml">1 Embrace Reality and Deal with It</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0025.xhtml">2 Use the 5-Step Process to Get What You Want Out of Life</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0026.xhtml">3 Be Radically Open-Minded</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0029.xhtml">4 Understand That People Are Wired Very Differently</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0030.xhtml">5 Learn How to Make Decisions Effectively</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0033.xhtml">Life Principles: Putting It All Together</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0034.xhtml">Summary and Table of Life Principles</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0035.xhtml">Part III: Work Principles</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="part0036.xhtml">Summary and Table of Work Principles</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0041.xhtml">To Get the Culture Right . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0043.xhtml">1 Trust in Radical Truth and Radical Transparency</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0045.xhtml">2 Cultivate Meaningful Work and Meaningful Relationships</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0046.xhtml">3 Create a Culture in Which It Is Okay to Make Mistakes and Unacceptable Not to Learn from Them</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0047.xhtml">4 Get and Stay in Sync</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0048.xhtml">5 Believability Weight Your Decision Making</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0049.xhtml">6 Recognize How to Get Beyond Disagreements</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0051.xhtml">To Get the People Right . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0054.xhtml">7 Remember That the WHO Is More Important than the WHAT</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0055.xhtml">8 Hire Right, Because the Penalties for Hiring Wrong Are Huge</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0056.xhtml">9 Constantly Train, Test, Evaluate, and Sort People</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0057.xhtml">To Build and Evolve Your Machine . . .</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0061.xhtml">10 Manage as Someone Operating a Machine to Achieve a Goal</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0062.xhtml">11 Perceive and Don’t Tolerate Problems</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0063.xhtml">12 Diagnose Problems to Get at Their Root Causes</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0064.xhtml">13 Design Improvements to Your Machine to Get Around Your Problems</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0066.xhtml">14 Do What You Set Out to Do</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0067.xhtml">15 Use Tools and Protocols to Shape How Work Is Done</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="part0068.xhtml">16 And for Heaven’s Sake, Don’t Overlook Governance!</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0069.xhtml">Work Principles: Putting It All Together</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0070.xhtml">Acknowledgments</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0071.xhtml">About the Author</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0072.xhtml">Conclusion</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0073.xhtml">Appendix: Tools and Protocols for Bridgewater’s Idea Meritocracy</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0074.xhtml">Bibliography</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0075.xhtml">Index</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="part0077.xhtml">Copyright</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="part0073.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page
</a>
    

    <a href="../../../Principles Life and Work.html" class="calibreAHome">start
</a>

    
      <a href="part0075.xhtml" class="calibreANext">next page
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
